VOIDBREACH
==========

PLAY IT
-------
You need Node.js installed (any recent version). Then:

    cd voidbreach
    node tools/serve.mjs

Open http://127.0.0.1:8099/ in a browser.

TO PLAY ON A PHONE OR TABLET (needed to test the touch controls):

    node tools/serve.mjs --lan

It prints your machine's network address. Open that on the phone, on the
same wifi. Plain http is fine. Without --lan the server is loopback-only
and the phone will just time out.

There is no build step and no npm install required to play. three.js is
vendored in vendor/. Any static web server works -- this one just disables
caching. (Python alternative:  python3 -m http.server 8099)

You cannot open index.html directly from disk: it uses ES modules, which
browsers only load over http://.

CONTROLS
--------
Three schemes. Touch is auto-detected; the CONTROLS button bottom-right
cycles them, or use ?controls=keyboard|mouse|touch

  KEYBOARD (default on desktop)
    WASD    move          LMB   carbine (no ammo -- it overheats)
    mouse   aim           RMB   frag grenade
    SPACE   dash          R     vent the barrel      F  light

  MOUSE ONLY
    left click    move there (hold and drag to keep steering)
    cursor        the operator turns to face it
    RIGHT click   fire
    middle click  frag
    double click  dash

  TOUCH
    tap             move there
    press and hold  plant, turn to that bearing, and fire -- but only
                    while something is actually there and in sight
    two fingers     frag
    double tap      dash

THREE THINGS THAT ARE NOT OBVIOUS
---------------------------------
1. The carbine never runs out, and that is not the same as free. Every round
   heats the barrel. About three seconds of held trigger takes it from cold to
   the redline, and at 100% it vents ITSELF -- a flat two-second lockout you
   did not choose. R vents it manually, and it costs less the earlier you do
   it. The bar is bottom right. Letting go before you have to is the skill.

2. Shoot the eggs. A brood queen does not spawn enemies; she lays clutches,
   and the eggs hatch. Each egg has a bright core that grows as it comes to
   term, so a room tells you what is about to happen to it. An egg takes two
   rounds. What hatches out of it takes a lot more.

3. She is armoured at the front. The mineral hood eats two thirds of anything
   hitting her frontal arc -- you get sparks instead of fluid, and you can
   hear the difference. Get behind her. Explosives ignore the hood entirely.

Also: wall grilles can be shot out. Five rounds welds one shut, and the Chorus
has permanently lost a bearing it can flank you from.

Find the violet light. That is a brood queen, and she is what is producing the
swarm. Kill her and the room empties.

    http://127.0.0.1:8099/?stats=1        live profiler overlay
    http://127.0.0.1:8099/studio.html     the material / lighting / model editor

TEST IT
-------
Instant, no browser needed:

    npm run check         dependency rules, determinism, geometry, level
    npm run validators    31 self-tests that prove each detector CAN fail

Needs a browser:

    npm install --no-save playwright
    npx playwright install chromium
    npm run replay        the 15-beat self-play run (~4 min headless)
    npm run gauntlet      everything, in the order that makes it mean something

PLAYTESTING
-----------
Read PLAYTEST.md first. It lists what I need to know, what is already
known to be rough (so you do not report it back), and the four questions
I cannot answer without a human holding the thing.

READ IT
-------
    DIRECTION.md      what it should feel and look like, and why
                      (see 12 for queens and eggs, 13 for heat)
    ARCHITECTURE.md   how it is put together, and the decision log
    TEST_PLAN.md      the gates -- including 6b what the instruments caught
                      and 6c what is still failing
    MULTIPLAYER.md    four-player co-op: planned, costed, not started
    STUDIO.md         the live authoring tool
    PLAYTEST.md       how to play-test, and what I need to know
    README.md         all of the above, in more detail
